TROUBLESHOOTING.md, before:

# Troubleshooting

This guide helps you diagnose and resolve common issues with the Power BI Modeling MCP Server. 

## Inspect the MCP Server output log

Check the [MCP server output log](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/copilot/customization/mcp-servers#_mcp-output-log) to see if any issues or exceptions are reported.

1. Open Command Palette (Ctrl+Shift+P)
2. Search for **MCP: List Servers**
3. Select **Power BI Modeling MCP Server**
4. Select **Show Output**
5. Examine the **Output** window in VS Code
6. Select **MCP: Power BI Modeling MCP Server** from the dropdown menu

![troubleshooting-vscode-output](docs/img/troubleshooting-vscode-output.png)

### Logging

The Power BI Modeling MCP Server is instrumented using the .NET [EventSource](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/system.diagnostics.tracing.eventsource) to emit detailed information. Logging follows the pattern of marking operation start, completion, and exceptions. These logs are invaluable for diagnosing MCP Server issues.

Server logs can be obtained by capturing events for provider "Microsoft-Extensions-Logging".

## Restart MCP Server

1. Open Command Palette (Ctrl+Shift+P)
2. Search for **MCP: List Servers**
3. Select **Power BI Modeling MCP Server**
4. Select **Restart Server**
5. Examine the **Output** window in VS Code
6. Select **MCP: Power BI Modeling MCP Server** from the dropdown menu

![troubleshooting-vscode-output](docs/img/troubleshooting-vscode-output.png)

## Locating MCP Server Binaries

The Power BI Modeling MCP Server extension installs its platform-specific binaries in the user profile directory under:

`%USERPROFILE%/.vscode/extensions/microsoft.powerbi-modeling-mcp-<version>-<platform>/server`

This can be useful for:
- Verifying the exact version installed
- Checking platform-specific binaries
- Finding the MCP binary to use from other MCP client tools
- Troubleshooting and replacing binaries in development builds

Commit message:

Refine troubleshooting guide for MCP Server logging and EventSource log collection

TROUBLESHOOTING.md, after:

# Troubleshooting

This guide helps you diagnose and resolve common issues with the Power BI Modeling MCP Server. 

## MCP Server Logging

Check the [MCP server output log](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/copilot/customization/mcp-servers#_mcp-output-log) for detailed information on any issues. These logs are essential for troubleshooting MCP Server problems.

1. Open Command Palette (Ctrl+Shift+P)
2. Search for **MCP: List Servers**
3. Select **Power BI Modeling MCP Server**
4. Select **Show Output**
5. Examine the **Output** window in VS Code
6. Select **MCP: Power BI Modeling MCP Server** from the dropdown menu

![troubleshooting-vscode-output](docs/img/troubleshooting-vscode-output.png)

### Collect logs from EventSource

The Power BI Modeling MCP Server also uses the [.NET EventSource](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/system.diagnostics.tracing.eventsource) to emit detailed information. You can capture these logs with tools such as [dotnet-trace](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/diagnostics/dotnet-trace).

Capturing the MCP logs with **dotnet-trace**:

1. Install [dotnet-trace](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/diagnostics/dotnet-trace)
2. Find the process ID for the server `powerbi-modeling-mcp.exe`
3. Run: `dotnet-trace collect -p {your-process-id} --providers 'Microsoft-Extensions-Logging:4:5'`
4. Collect the trace
5. A `.nettrace` file will be output

## Restart MCP Server

1. Open Command Palette (Ctrl+Shift+P)
2. Search for **MCP: List Servers**
3. Select **Power BI Modeling MCP Server**
4. Select **Restart Server**
5. Examine the **Output** window in VS Code
6. Select **MCP: Power BI Modeling MCP Server** from the dropdown menu

![troubleshooting-vscode-output](docs/img/troubleshooting-vscode-output.png)

## Locating MCP Server Binaries

The Power BI Modeling MCP Server extension installs its platform-specific binaries in the user profile directory under:

`%USERPROFILE%/.vscode/extensions/microsoft.powerbi-modeling-mcp-<version>-<platform>/server`

This can be useful for:
- Verifying the exact version installed
- Checking platform-specific binaries
- Finding the MCP binary to use from other MCP client tools
- Troubleshooting and replacing binaries in development builds
